Add workload section to Benchmarks (#4705)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _benchmark/workloads/index.md

---
layout: default
title: Workload reference
nav_order: 60
has_children: true
---

# OpenSearch Benchmark workload reference

A workload is a specification of one or more benchmarking scenarios. A workload typically includes the following:

> - One or more data streams that are ingested into indices.

Author: Addressing in indices commit.

- A set of queries and operations that are invoked as part of the benchmark.

## Anatomy of a workload

> The following example workload shows all of the essential elements need to create a workload.json file. You can run this workload in your own benchmark configuration, in order to understand how all element coalesce together:

Reviewer: need --> needed

Author: Let's switch to "you need".

          "uncompressed-bytes": 1544799789 # Fetch uncompressed bytes from command line
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "schedule": [
    {
      "operation": {
        "operation-type": "create-index"
      }
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "operation-type": "cluster-health",
        "request-params": {
          "wait_for_status": "green"
        },
        "retry-until-success": true
      }
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "operation-type": "bulk",
        "bulk-size": 5000
      },
      "warmup-time-period": 120,
      "clients": 8
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "name": "query-match-all",
        "operation-type": "search",
        "body": {
          "query": {
            "match_all": {}
          }
        }
      },
      "iterations": 1000,
      "target-throughput": 100
    }
  ]
}
```

A workload usually consists of the following elements:

- [indices]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/workloads/indices/): Defines the relevant indices and index templates used for the workload.
- [corpora]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/workloads/corpora/): Defines all documents corpora used for the workload.

> - `schedule`: Defines in what order the workload performs an action. It can use either the `operations` element to define the operations or place the operations in line.

Reviewer: It might be more accurate to say that users can use `schedule` to define operations and the order they're run in in-line. Alternatively, in lieu of `schedule`, users can also use `operations` to group operations and `test_procedures` to specify the order of operations. They'll achieve the same effect. I added some examples below. Let me know if you have any questions or if you think there's a better way to rephrase this!

For example: 
### Example of workload.json that uses schedule
```
{
  "version": 2,
  "description": "Tutorial benchmark for OpenSearch Benchmark",
  "indices": [
    {
      "name": "movies",
      "body": "index.json"
    }
  ],
  "corpora": [
    {
      "name": "movies",
      "documents": [
        {
          "source-file": "movies-documents.json",
          "document-count": 11658903, # Fetch document count from command line
          "uncompressed-bytes": 1544799789 # Fetch uncompressed bytes from command line
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "schedule": [
    {
      "operation": {
        "operation-type": "delete-index"
      }
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "operation-type": "create-index"
      }
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "operation-type": "cluster-health",
        "request-params": {
          "wait_for_status": "green"
        },
        "retry-until-success": true
      }
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "operation-type": "bulk",
        "bulk-size": 5000
      },
      "warmup-time-period": 120,
      "clients": 8
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "operation-type": "force-merge"
      }
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "name": "query-match-all",
        "operation-type": "search",
        "body": {
          "query": {
            "match_all": {}
          }
        }
      },
      "clients": 8,
      "warmup-iterations": 1000,
      "iterations": 1000,
      "target-throughput": 100
    }
  ]
}
```
### Example of workload.json with operations and test_procedures in lieu of schedule
```
{
  "version": 2,
  "description": "Tutorial benchmark for OpenSearch Benchmark",
  "indices": [
    {
      "name": "movies",
      "body": "index.json"
    }
  ],
  "corpora": [
    {
      "name": "movies",
      "documents": [
        {
          "source-file": "movies-documents.json",
          "document-count": 11658903, # Fetch document count from command line
          "uncompressed-bytes": 1544799789 # Fetch uncompressed bytes from command line
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
    "operations": [
    {{ benchmark.collect(parts="operations/*.json") }}
  ],
  "test_procedures": [
    {{ benchmark.collect(parts="test_procedures/*.json") }}
  ]
}
```

> - `schedule`: Defines operations and what order the operations run in-line. Alternatively, you can use `operations` to group operations and the `test_procedures` parameter to specify the order of operations. .

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `schedule`: Defines operations and what order the operations run in-line. Alternatively, you can use `operations` to group operations and the `test_procedures` parameter to specify the order of operations. 
```

> - `operations`: **Optional**. Describes which operations are available for this track and how they are parametrized. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `operations`: **Optional**. Describes which operations are available for this track and how they are parameterized. 
```

> - `operations`: **Optional**. Describes which operations are available for this track and how they are parameterized. 

Author: Should be "workload". I'm changing now.

> - `operations`: **Optional**. Describes which operations are available for this track and how they are parameterized. 

Author: ```suggestion
- `operations`: **Optional**. Describes which operations are available for this workload and how they are parameterized. 
```

> - `operations`: **Optional**. Describes which operations are available for this track and how they are parameterized. 

Author: ```suggestion
- `operations`: **Optional**. Describes which operations are available for the workload and how they are parameterized. 
```

### Indices

To create an index, you need to specify the `name` of the index. If you want to add definitions for your index, use the `body` option and point it to the JSON file containing the index definitions.

> 

Reviewer: Should we also have a quick link at the end of the each summary section in the index.md where the user can click and learn about more in-depth information? Example:
```
To learn more about indices, visit [indices page]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/workloads/indices/).
```

> To create an index, specify the `name` of the indexes. If you want to add definitions for your index, use the `body` option and point it to the JSON file containing the index definitions. For more information, see [indices]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/workloads/indices/).

Author: ```suggestion
To create an indices, specify a `name` for each indices. To add definitions for your indices, use the `body` option and point it to the JSON file containing the indices' definitions. For more information, see [indices]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/workloads/indices/).
```

Author: Does that work? They are two separate parameters.

Alternatively, I could do something like:

All indices require two elements inside the workload:

- The `name` of the indices.
- The `body` of the indices, which points to the a JSON file containing the definitions for that indices.

Reviewer 3: "index" singular is fine, so how about "To create an index, specify its `name`. To add definitions to your index, use the `body` option and point it to the JSON file containing the index definitions."

> To create an index, you need to specify the `name` of the indices. If you want to add definitions for your index use the `body` option and point it to the JSON file containing the index definitions. For more information, see [indices]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/workloads/indices/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create an index, specify the `name` of the indexes. If you want to add definitions for your index, use the `body` option and point it to the JSON file containing the index definitions. For more information, see [indices]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/workloads/indices/).
```
Can we call the file name 'indexes'? Since it's not code, we should be able to handle it like we do in OpenSearch.

### Corpora

The `corpora` element requires the name of the index containing the document corpus, for example, `movies`, and a list of parameters that define the document corpora, which includes:

> -  `source-file`: The file name to corresponding documents. When using Benchmark locally, documents are contained in a JSON file. When providing a `base_url`, use a compressed file format; `.zip`, `.bz2`, `.gz,` `.tar`, `.tar.gz`, `.tgz` or `.tar.bz2`. The compressed file must contain one JSON file with the name. 

Reviewer: Benchmark -> OpenSearch Benchmark

> -  `source-file`: The file name to corresponding documents. When using OpenSearch Benchmark locally, documents are contained in a JSON file. When providing a `base_url`, use a compressed file format; `.zip`, `.bz2`, `.gz,` `.tar`, `.tar.gz`, `.tgz` or `.tar.bz2`. The compressed file must contain one JSON file with the name. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
-  `source-file`: The file name for the corresponding documents. When using the benchmark tool locally, documents are contained in a JSON file. When providing a `base_url`, use a compressed file format; `.zip`, `.bz2`, `.gz,` `.tar`, `.tar.gz`, `.tgz` or `.tar.bz2`. The compressed file must contain one JSON file with the name. 
```

> -  `document-count`  The number of documents in the `source-file` that determines which client indexes correlate to which part of the document corpus (each N client get on N-th of the document corpus). When using a source that contains a document with a parent-child relationship, specify the number of parent documents. 

Reviewer: on N-th of the document -> an N-th of the document

> - `uncompressed-bytes` The size in bytes of the source file after decompression, used to show you much disk space the decompressed source file needs. You can also indicate the number of `compressed-bytes`, the size of the source file before decompression, which can help you assess the time it'll take for the workload to ingest the documents

Reviewer: Are users using the `compressed-bytes` to estimate how long it'll take the cluster to ingest the documents? If so, we should edit to  `... take for the cluster to ingest the documents`

Author: That's my understanding. Adjusting...

> - `uncompressed-bytes` The size in bytes of the source file after decompression, used to show you much disk space the decompressed source file needs. You can also indicate the number of `compressed-bytes`, the size of the source file before decompression, which can help you assess the time it'll take for the cluster to ingest documents.

Author: I separated the bullet points.

### Operations

> The `operations` element lists the API OpenSearch operations performed by the workload For example, you can set an operation to `create-index`, which creates an index of Benchmarked data after the workload completes. Operations are usually listed inside of `schedule`.

Reviewer: missing period between `workload` and `For`

> The `operations` element lists the API OpenSearch operations performed by the workload. For example, you can set an operation to `create-index`, which creates an index in the test cluster that OpenSearch Benchmark can write documents into. Operations are usually listed inside of `schedule`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `operations` element lists the OpenSearch API operations performed by the workload. For example, you can set an operation to `create-index`, which creates an index in the test cluster that the benchmark tool can write documents into. Operations are usually listed inside of `schedule`.
```

### Schedule

> The `schedule` element contains a list of actions and operations run by the workload. Operations run according to the order in which they appear in the `schedule`. The following example illustrates a `schedule` with multiple operations, each defined by their `operation-type`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `schedule` element contains a list of actions and operations that are run by the workload. Operations run according to the order in which they appear in the `schedule`. The following example illustrates a `schedule` with multiple operations, each defined by their `operation-type`. 
```

```json
  "schedule": [
    {
      "operation": {
        "operation-type": "create-index"
      }
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "operation-type": "cluster-health",
        "request-params": {
          "wait_for_status": "green"
        },
        "retry-until-success": true
      }
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "operation-type": "bulk",
        "bulk-size": 5000
      },
      "warmup-time-period": 120,
      "clients": 8
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "name": "query-match-all",
        "operation-type": "search",
        "body": {
          "query": {
            "match_all": {}
          }
        }
      },
      "iterations": 1000,
      "target-throughput": 100
    }
  ]
}
```

According to this schedule, each action will run in the following order.

> 1. The `create-index` operation creates an index with benchmarked data.

Reviewer: `create-index` only creates the index. The index created is empty and does not contain benchmarked data yet (not until the bulk operation occurs where it begins ingesting data into the index)

> 2. The `cluster-health` operation assess the health of the cluster before running the workload. In this example, the workload will wait until the status of cluster's health is `green`.

Reviewer: assess --> assesses

> 3. The `bulk` operation run the `bulk` API to index `500` documents at once.

Reviewer: Nit: run -> runs

Reviewer: `500` --> `5000`

Author: So its the name limit as the `bulk` operation in OpenSearch? Nice.

> 4. Before benchmarking, the workload waits until the specified `warmup-time-period` passes. In this example, the warmup period if `120` seconds.

Reviewer: if -> is

Reviewer: I think step 4 and 5 should be made as bullet points under step 3. These fall under the same operation and can be explained in that step as bullet points. Let me know your thoughts!

Author: Done.

> 2. The `cluster-health` operation assesses the health of the cluster before running the workload. In this example, the workload will wait until the status of cluster's health is `green`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. The `cluster-health` operation assesses the health of the cluster before running the workload. In this example, the workload waits until the status of cluster's health is `green`.
```

>    - The `bulk` operation runs the `bulk` API to index `5000` documents at once.

Author: Simultaneously.

>    - The `bulk` operation runs the `bulk` API to index `5000` documents at once.

Author: ```suggestion
   - The `bulk` operation runs the `bulk` API to index `5000` documents simultaneously.
```

5. The `clients` options defines the number of clients that will run the remaining actions in the schedule concurrently.

> 6. The `search` runs a `match_all` query to find documents that match each other after they are indexed by the `bulk` API using the 8 clients specified.

Reviewer: "runs a `match_all` query to find documents that match each other after "
can be clarified with something like
"runs a `match_all` query to match all documents after they have been indexed"

> 7. The `iterations` options indicates the number of time each client runs the `search` operation. The report generated by the benchmark automatically adjusts the percentile numbers based on this number. To generate a precise percentile, the benchmark needs to run at least 1000 iteration.

Reviewer: This can go underneath step 6 as a bullet point

> 8. Lastly, the `target-throughput` defines the number of requests per second each client performs, which when set can help reduce the latency of the benchmark. For example, a `target-throughput` of 100 requests divided by 8 clients means that each client will issue 12 requests per second.

Reviewer: This can also go under step 6 as a bullet point

## Workload examples

> If you want to try certain workloads before creating your own, use the following examples.

Reviewer: Do we want to have a super tiny sample workload that they can run?

Reviewer: Connects to the comment below.

Reviewer: I deleted the comment below. I understand the section now. Maybe we can rephrase it to "More Workload Examples"

> ### Running unthrottled

Reviewer: `Running unthrottled` and `Workload with a single task` being under `Workload examples` is a little misleading.  `Running unthrottled` and `Workload with a single task` are examples of somewhat niche use-cases and aren't basic examples of what users might have just learned. 

Maybe we can move these two to a section beneath it called "Tailoring Workloads to Specific Use Cases" or something more fitting and then add a super small example workload that they can use in "Workload Example"

In the following example, OpenSearch Benchmark runs a bulk index operation unthrottled for one hour against the `movies` index:

```json
{
  "description": "Tutorial benchmark for OpenSearch Benchmark",
  "indices": [
    {
      "name": "movies",
      "body": "index.json"
    }
  ],
  "corpora": [
    {
      "name": "movies",
      "documents": [
        {
          "source-file": "movies-documents.json",
          "document-count": 11658903, # Fetch document count from command line
          "uncompressed-bytes": 1544799789 # Fetch uncompressed bytes from command line
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "schedule": [
  {
    "operation": "bulk",
    "warmup-time-period": 120,
    "time-period": 3600,
    "clients": 8
  }
]
}
```

### Workload with a single task

> The following workload runs a benchmark with a single task, a `match_all` query. According to the `schedule`, the workload runs the `match_all` query at 10 operations per second with one client, uses 100 iterations to warmup, and the next 100 iterations to measure the benchmark:

Reviewer: Maybe clarify how we deduced that it has one client? 
"Since there's no `clients` parameter specified in the schedule, we can assume that there is only one client being used"

          "wait_for_status": "green"
        },
        "retry-until-success": true
      }
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "operation-type": "bulk",
        "bulk-size": 5000
      },
      "warmup-time-period": 120,
      "clients": 8
    },
    {
      "operation": {
        "name": "query-match-all",
        "operation-type": "search",
        "body": {
          "query": {
            "match_all": {}
          }
        }
      },
      "iterations": 1000,
      "target-throughput": 100
    }
  ]
}
```

A workload usually consists of the following elements:

- [indices]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/workloads/indices/): Defines the relevant indices and index templates used for the workload.
- [corpora]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/workloads/corpora/): Defines all document corpora used for the workload.
- `schedule`: Defines operations and in what order the operations run in-line. Alternatively, you can use `operations` to group operations and the `test_procedures` parameter to specify the order of operations. 
- `operations`: **Optional**. Describes which operations are available for the workload and how they are parameterized. 

### Indices

> To create an index, specify its `name`. To add definitions to your index, use the `body` option and point it to the JSON file containing the index definitions. For more information, see [indices]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/workloads/indices/).For more information, see [indices]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/workloads/indices/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To create an index, specify its `name`. To add definitions to your index, use the `body` option and point it to the JSON file containing the index definitions. For more information, see [indices]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/workloads/indices/). For more information, see [indices]({{site.url}}{{site.baseurl}}/benchmark/workloads/indices/).
```

### Corpora

The `corpora` element requires the name of the index containing the document corpus, for example, `movies`, and a list of parameters that define the document corpora. This list includes the following parameters:

> -  `source-file`: The file name that contains the workload's corresponding documents. When using OpenSearch Benchmark locally, documents are contained in a JSON file. When providing a `base_url`, use a compressed file format: `.zip`, `.bz2`, `.gz`, `.tar`, `.tar.gz`, `.tgz`, or `.tar.bz2`. The compressed file must have one JSON file containing the name. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  `source-file`: The name of the file containing the workload's corresponding documents. When using OpenSearch Benchmark locally, documents are contained in a JSON file. When providing a `base_url`, use a compressed file format: `.zip`, `.bz2`, `.gz`, `.tar`, `.tar.gz`, `.tgz`, or `.tar.bz2`. The compressed file must have one JSON file containing the name. 
```

> -  `document-count`: The number of documents in the `source-file`, which determines which client indices correlate to which parts of the document corpus. Each N client receives an N-th of the document corpus. When using a source that contains a document with a parent-child relationship, specify the number of parent documents. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-  `document-count`: The number of documents in the `source-file`, which determines which client indices correlate to which parts of the document corpus. Each N client receives an Nth of the document corpus. When using a source that contains a document with a parent-child relationship, specify the number of parent documents. 
```

- `uncompressed-bytes`: The size, in bytes, of the source file after decompression, indicating how much disk space the decompressed source file needs. 

> - `compressed-bytes`: The size, in bytes of the source file before decompression. This can help you assess the time it'll take for the cluster to ingest documents.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `compressed-bytes`: The size, in bytes, of the source file before decompression. This can help you assess the amount of time needed for the cluster to ingest documents.
```

   - Before benchmarking, the workload waits until the specified `warmup-time-period` passes. In this example, the warmup period is `120` seconds.
5. The `clients` option defines the number of clients that will run the remaining actions in the schedule concurrently.
6. The `search` runs a `match_all` query to match all documents after they have been indexed by the `bulk` API using the 8 clients specified.
   - The `iterations` option indicates the number of times each client runs the `search` operation. The report generated by the benchmark automatically adjusts the percentile numbers based on this number. To generate a precise percentile, the benchmark needs to run at least 1,000 iterations.
   - Lastly, the `target-throughput` option defines the number of requests per second each client performs, which, when set, can help reduce the latency of the benchmark. For example, a `target-throughput` of 100 requests divided by 8 clients means that each client will issue 12 requests per second.

## More workload examples

If you want to try certain workloads before creating your own, use the following examples.

### Running unthrottled

> In the following example, OpenSearch Benchmark runs an untrottled bulk index operation for 1 hour against the `movies` index:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the following example, OpenSearch Benchmark runs an unthrottled bulk index operation for 1 hour against the `movies` index:
```
